---
layout: post
title: "Microcorruption - Jakarta: Write-up"
date: 2019-01-9 13:00:17.000000000 +08:00
excerpt: A write-up on the solution for the microcorruption level Jakarta. The thought process behind the solution is also included.
tags: [microcorruption, solution, wargames]
keywords: [microcorruption, jakarta, solution, tip, answer, ctf, wargames]
---

## The input

For this particular problem, the user can input 2 strings: `username` and `password`. The total size of both inputs is claimed to be limited to 32 characters.

## The exploit

Interestingly, the input interrupt allows 0xff characters for `username`. The number of characters allowed for `password` is (0x1f - length of `username`) & 0x1ff. By having 0x20 characters for `username`, we can maximise this value to be 0x1ff. This is significantly more than the 32 character limit, hinting the exploit will rely on some super long string to circumvent the the checks.

Further inspection of the program reveals the string check algorithm is implemented as follows. r11 is initialised to 0 at the start. This code segment runs after both inputs:

```
45ee:  3f40 0124      mov	#0x2401, r15
45f2:  1f53           inc	r15
45f4:  cf93 0000      tst.b	0x0(r15)
45f8:  fc23           jnz	#0x45f2
45fa:  3f80 0224      sub	#0x2402, r15
45fe:  0f5b           add	r11, r15
4600:  7f90 2100      cmp.b	#0x21, r15
```

In words, the program iterates over the input buffer until it reaches a byte that is 00. The pointer is subtracted from the first position (0x2402) and the length is obtained. r11 is then added to this length and the **first byte** of the length is compared with 0x21.

Thus to circumvent the length check, we can utilise the large input buffer that is allowed (0x2fe in total), so the final length is in the format of 0xXX00. As the architecture uses little endian, the first byte will be 00 instead of XX, which is less than 0x21. We can then overwrite the return address of the function on the stack to the `unlock_door` function.

## The solution

Username, a 32 character string: 

```
gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg
```

Password, a 511 character string with the address of `unlock_door` at the required position:
```
aaaaLDaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
```
