---
layout: post
title: "Microcorruption - Lagos: Write-up"
date: 2019-02-19 10:52:34.000000000 +8:00
excerpt: A write-up on the solution for the microcorruption level Lagos. The thought process behind the solution is also included. At the end a 29 byte solution with 16726 CPU cycle time is achieved.
tags: [microcorruption, solution, wargames]
keywords: [microcorruption, lagos, solution, tip, answer, ctf, wargames, 16726, clock cycle, 29, input]
---

## The input

Only one string, the `password` is entered, with a maximum input length of 0x200 bytes. One constraint is that only alphanumeric characters are allowed.

## The exploit

When a constraint is applied, I always check if they are implemented properly. The alphanumeric checks are performed in the login function. The characters are first checked if they are between '0'-'9' (0x30-0x39) by adding 0xffd0 to the number. Effectively, this subtracts 0x30 from the number. The character is only copied if the difference is smaller or equal to 0x9, as seen in the `jc` instruction. A similar process is performed for both sets of alphabets 'a'-'z' and 'A'-'Z'. There are no potential exploits in this area of code.

On the other hand, one potential method of exploitation is overwriting the stack and even some code. With 0x200 bytes of input, we can overwrite the stack at 0x13, and then `conditional_unlock_door` at 0x91. Overwriting the stack allowing direction of the return pointer, but the available address are limited due to the alphanumeric restriction. Overwriting the function allows execution of arbitary code, but the instructions must have a alphanumeric hex value. After some googling, I found a [list of alphanumeric instructions for MSP430](https://gist.github.com/rmmh/8515577). Looking at the instructions, they do not seem particularly useful, though it should be possible to create a string of instructions that manipulates `pc` and `sr` to achieve the desired outcome given the large input size. I did not chose to go down this route, as appears to be quite complicated and boring to derived the required instructions.

The remaining method is overwriting the stack. Initially I attempted some [rop](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Return-oriented_programming) exploits, but there weren't enough gadgets and the useful ones were not accessible due to the addresses not complying to the restrictions. However, during this exploratory process, I discovered that the input prompt, `getsn`, resides within the available memory address. `getsn` has 2 parameters, the size and storage location of the input. The 2 parameters are pushed onto the stack with the interrupt code 0x2 and `INT` called. As we have full control of the stack, we can manipulate the parameters and change the storage location to be directly after the `INT` call. This time, no restrictions apply as the check is not performed, allowing arbitary code execution.

The code we plan to execute is the classic 8 byte '324000ffb0121000' derived from the following instructions:

```
mov 	#0xff00, sr
call	#0x10
```

The required `getsn` code starts at 0x4654, as we need to push 0x2 onto the stack. The storage address of the input will be 0x465a, directly after the `INT` call. Though the size parameter of `getsn` is required, we can omit it and use the value on the stack. At this point of execution, the value is larger than 8 bytes, so all our payload will be included.

## The solution

The first input has the following form:

<--0x11 byte padding-->
<--2 byte `getsn` address-->
<--2 byte storage address-->

and the following value:

```
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaTFZF
```

The second input is simply the following:

```
324000ffb0121000
```